The dealer is in charge of running all aspects of the game, from shuffling and dealing the cards to handling all bets.

1) THE PACK:
In this game the standard 52-card pack is used

2) OBJECT OF THE GAME:
Each participant attempts to beat the dealer by getting a count as close to 21 as possible, without going over 21.

3) CARD VALUES/SCORING:
It is up to each individual player if an ace is worth 1 or 11. Face cards are 10 and any other card is its pip value.

4) BETTING:
Before the deal begins, each player places a bet, in chips, in front of them in the designated area.

5) THE DEAL:
When all the players have placed their bets, the dealer gives two cards face up to the player.But the dealer takes one card face up and and one card face down.

6) NATURALS:
If a player's first two cards are an ace and a "ten-card" (a picture card or 10), giving a count of 21 in two cards, this is a natural or "blackjack." If any player has a natural and the    dealer does not, the dealer immediately pays the player one and a half times the amount of their bet.If the dealer and the player both have naturals, the bet of that player is a stand-off   (a tie), and the player takes back his bet amount.

If the dealer's face-up card is a ten-card or an ace, they look at their face-down card to see if the two cards make a natural. If the face-up card is not a ten-card or an ace, they do not  look at the face-down card until it is the dealer's turn to play.

7) THE PLAY:
The player goes first and must decide whether to "stand" (not ask for another card) or "hit" (ask for another card in an attempt to get closer to a count of 21, or even hit 21 exactly). Thus, the player may stand on the two cards originally dealt to them, or they may ask the dealer for additional cards, one at a time, until deciding to stand on the total (if it is 21 or under), or goes "bust" (if it is over 21). In the latter case, the player loses and the dealer collects the bet wagered.

The combination of an ace with a card other than a ten-card is known as a "soft hand," because the player can count the ace as a 1 or 11, and either draw cards or not. For example with a    "soft 17" (an ace and a 6), the total is 7 or 17. While a count of 17 is a good hand, the player may wish to draw for a higher total. If the draw creates a bust hand by counting the ace as an 11, the player simply counts the ace as a 1 and continues playing by standing or "hitting" (asking the dealer for additional cards, one at a time).

8) THE DEALER'S PLAY:
When the dealer has served the player, the dealers face-down card is turned up. If the total is 17 or more, it must stand. If the total is 16 or under, they must take a card. The dealer must continue to take cards until the total is 17 or more, at which point the dealer must stand. If the dealer has an ace, and counting it as 11 would bring the total to 17 or more (but not over 21), the dealer must count the ace as 11 and stand. The dealer's decisions, then, are automatic on all plays, whereas the player always has the option of taking one or more cards.

9) SPLITTING PAIRS:
If the player's first two cards are of the same denomination, such as two jacks or two sixes, they may choose to treat them as two separate hands when their turn comes around. The amount of the original bet then goes on one of the cards, and an equal amount must be placed as a bet on the other card. The player first plays the hand to their left by standing or hitting one or    more times; only then is the hand to the right played. The two hands are thus treated separately, and the dealer settles with each on its own merits. With a pair of aces, the player is given one card for each ace and may not draw again. Also, if a ten-card is dealt to one of these aces, the payoff is equal to the bet (not one and one-half to one, as with a blackjack at any     other time).

10) DOUBLING DOWN:
Another option open to the player is doubling their bet when the original two cards dealt total 9, 10, or 11. When the player's turn comes, they place a bet equal to the original bet, and   the dealer gives the player just one card, which is placed face down and is not turned up until the bets are settled at the end of the hand. With two fives, the player may split a pair,     double down, or just play the hand in the regular way. Note that the dealer does not have the option of splitting or doubling down.

11) INSURANCE:
Insurance bet is a 2:1 off,means that the player places a bet of half of his original bet as insurance bet from his part while the dealer places a bet of twice the amount the insurance bet  of the player.

When the dealer's face-up card is an ace or ten-card, the player may insure that the dealer has a blackjack.Once the bet is placed, the dealer looks at the faced down card. If it is results in a natural black jack and player has no natural black jack, it is turned up,the player wins the insurance bet but loses his original bet. Ifthe player also has blackjack,it is a stand-off. 

12) SETTLEMENT:
A bet once paid and collected is never returned. Thus, one key advantage to the dealer is that the player goes first. If the player goes bust, they have already lost their wager, even if the dealer goes bust as well. If the dealer goes over 21, the dealer pays the player who has stood the amount of that player's bet. If the dealer stands at 21 or less, the dealer pays the bet  to the player if the player has a higher total (not exceeding 21). The dealer collects the bet of the player if the player has a lower total. If there is a stand-off (the player having the  same total as the dealer), no chips are paid out or collected.

13) BASIC STRATEGY:
Winning tactics in Blackjack require that the player play each hand in the optimum way, and such strategy always takes into account what the dealer's upcard is. When the dealer's upcard is a good one, a 7, 8, 9, 10-card, or ace for example, the player should not stop drawing until a total of 17 or more is reached. When the dealer's upcard is a poor one, 4, 5, or 6, the player  should stop drawing as soon as he gets a total of 12 or higher. The strategy here is never to take a card if there is any chance of going bust. The desire with this poor holding is to let   the dealer hit and hopefully go over 21. Finally, when the dealer's up card is a fair one, 2 or 3, the player should stop with a total of 13 or higher.

With a soft hand, the general strategy is to keep hitting until a total of at least 18 is reached. Thus, with an ace and a six (7 or 17), the player would not stop at 17, but would hit.

The basic strategy for doubling down is as follows: With a total of 11, the player should always double down. With a total of 10, he should double down unless the dealer shows a ten-card or an ace. With a total of 9, the player should double down only if the dealer's card is fair or poor (2 through 6).

For splitting, the player should always split a pair of aces or 8s; identical ten-cards should not be split, and neither should a pair of 5s, since two 5s are a total of 10, which can be used more effectively in doubling down. A pair of 4s should not be split either, as a total of 8 is a good number to draw to.  Generally, 2s, 3s, or 7s can be split unless the dealer has an 8, 9, ten-card, or ace. Finally, 6s should not be split unless the dealer's card is poor (2 through 6).
